Have you ever been tempted to do
announcing other than at Kyle Field? In other
words, do radio broadcasts? Or has there ever been
an opportunity to do that?
When you say have I been tempted, I was asked
yesterday by a gentleman in this town to go over
here. I won't say where here is. but I don't think I
will. Yes, I'd like it, I think, but I don't think I
will. Yeah, I've thought about that
kind of stuff. You know, one thing about some of
these people on some of these programs, I don't
mean the top fellas, but They don't pronounce the
names of the athletes, and they mumble sometimes.
And I think it's only common courtesy that you
learn how to pronounce the names of the men you're
dealing with. I try to find out. I do find out how to
pronounce all the names of these. Oh, I make
mistakes. Everybody does, of course, and I make
more than most people. The mistakes I make, the
fans don't see. What I was wondering about is, for
example, for years, all of the Southwest
Conference football games had been broadcast on
the radio. Yeah. But I wondered if you had ever had
an inclination to be involved in, say, the
broadcast of some of the A&M games, or if you ever
had been involved. No. You see that right next to
me. Uh-huh. No, I, yeah, I think I kind of like it,
just tell you the truth. I'm getting pretty old,
though, you know, to get mixed up with that kind of
stuff. Now, most people may not realize it, but
it's pretty tense work up there. It's pretty
tense. You can't get up there and look around at the
seagulls and look around at the fan. You're going
to watch what's going on down there all the time,
see? And I have two spotters, and Every once in a
while, you know, they'll be gazing over there at
some girl over across the way, and I'll say, who had
the ball there? I said, let's watch the ball game,
you know, for a little while, and you've got to spot
it over there. Now, let's, you know, kind of watch.
But I've had pretty good spotters all the way
along. Pretty good boys. But I check them. I have to
check them. And then I want them to check me. So you
have two spotters, one for each school? No, no. No.
Yeah, one for each team. I do not want anybody up
there from the opposition school. I want two
Aggies, and I'll take this fellow, take A&M, and
this fellow, take the other club. And he keeps the
both club on offense and defense. Now, he's got
speed cards there. They issue us speed cards, and
it's easy to, you know, all you got to do is get the
number and the name right there. Left speed cards
on the offense and the depth on offense, speed
cards on defense, depth on defense, and then the
whole roster. And every once in a while you look out
there and you'll see 96. It's not here.
Well, that doesn't happen very often. It may be
that somebody tears a jersey or something. They
haven't had time to come up and let us know that
there's been a change in jerseys or maybe a muddy
field. That's fun, doing a game in mud. That's a
guessing game. And I like to have two guys up there
that can tell By the way the fellow walked out
there, who he is, never mind his number. I couldn't
tell. I don't see him that often. But I'm going over
in a few days. They're going to start, what do you
call it, tomorrow. Start to call workouts.
You know what I'm going to do when I get through
here? You don't need to put this on the table.
You were saying you were going to go over to the
athletic department in a few days and...
I'll watch the scrimmages out there and
familiarize myself with the ballplayers.
But I go there a day early and get the program and I
take it home and I look it over and I had one kiddo in a
class. I get quite a few athletes in a class. I used
to. And this kiddo, I was mispronouncing his name.
So he came into one of my classes one day. I was told
what his name was by over there. And I called the
roll, and I called it this way. And then I said, is
that right? pronounce a kiddo's name and then ask
them, is that right? And I want them to pronounce
their name, because I think it's sinful to
mispronounce a person's name. It's their name,
and they can have it pronounced any way they want
to. And so this kiddo said, no, it's pronounced
thus and so. I said, all right. So every day from
then on, I'd pronounce it wrong, and then under my
breath, I'd pronounce it right, you know. They got
a big boot on their hands.
Have
you ever recorded any of your broadcasts from Kyle
Field?
No, I haven't. No. I don't know if anybody has. No,
not to my knowledge. I don't think that he would
very much. I don't know. I think for, say, 25 years,
to all Aggies, you've been the voice of Kyle Field.
And I was wondering if there was any consideration
being given to encourage you for posterity,
particularly your opening remarks. I don't think
posterity. Oh, I had a fellow come in here from
somewhere, I don't know, somewhere on a campus. He
was doing a... doing a movie or some kind of a thing,
and he asked me if I would repeat that, give that
line. And he set up his stuff, and I gave it to him two
or three times, and he locked his kit up and went
off. And I haven't seen him since. But other than
that, I don't... How long ago was this? I don't
know. A few years ago. A few years ago. Was that... I
don't even remember who he was now or what he was...
cooked up with, but some department here on the
county. It could have been architecture. Could
have been. Well, they did a movie here a few years
ago, kind of a recruiting film. I've seen parts of
it. What was the name of that? Focus on the Future, I
believe, was what? I don't know whether that one's
been in or not.
I
believe when I called you, I indicated I was
talking with former students retired or retiring
faculty members, and you're due to retire in a very
few days, what plans do you have for the future?
Will you be continuing with theater arts in at all?
No, I don't have any plans of doing any future work
in theater. I dearly love it. I'd really like,
really, and this is what I'd really like to do, I'd
like to do some more acting, but I cannot remember
lines. When I first started in, you know, we had
some good directors up there, and he had sling in a
book. I said, I want act one tomorrow night. We'd
memorize an act a night, and we'd get a show ready in
pretty short order and do it quite well. It's not
stage fright, as far as I'm concerned. I can talk to
a a bunch of people. I'm not staged, right? But I
cannot, for some reason or other, remember lying.
That strange thing happened a few years ago. We
were doing a great big show in Guyana with Mrs.
Morgan, and I took part. She had two one-act plays,
and they were part of it. We had choruses. We had
everything. And I made up a little scene. It was a
big thing. We filled iron twice. I had about a
couple of thousand people in there both times. It
only holds 1,775. And I played with Mrs. Delaplane
with one scene. And I was playing with Harry
Gooding in another. I forget the names of the
little shows now. And I was directing the whole
thing at the same time. And there was a table. And I
was playing the devil. the naughty fella. And
there was a table here, and Harry was sitting here.
It was J. Best Stone, I believe was the name of the
thing. And I came over. I had all my stuff on the
table, all my lines pasted on the table very
neatly. And I came over, you know, and I looked down
there. The stage kids had taken all that stuff off,
and there I was without a single solitary line. So
we got through the scene somehow. Now, I probably
won't. I'm going to spend a great deal of my time
from now on working with orphans, kiddos without a
mom and a papa. Now, there are not very many people
that ever stop to think about kiddos without a mama
and a papa. I know these Texas orphanages are
pretty well fixed. They're run, a lot of them, by
churches. And they feed them well, and they clothe
them well, and they go to public schools. Some of
them have their own schools. And they live in
little cottages, and they have a house mother, and
they have many, many conveniences. I know all of
that. And they're treated beautifully. Some of
them treated much better than they would be at
home. And some of them have a mother and a father.
Some of them have one, some have the other. And some
of the kiddos don't want, they've been given up.
Their folks don't want them, and that's why they
land in these homes. Well, I'm in contact now with
three different homes here in Texas. That's what
they call them, homes. And what I want to do is to
spend a little time going around, if possible,
that's what this last call was about, making
little talks to these little churches around the
area here. I'm not going to go out there and cry. I'm
not going to bleed. I'm not going to beg for
anything. I'm just going to put down the cold facts
and issue them a little challenge. I want to do
something personal for these little kids, the
little squirts. Now, don't you think a little
six-year-old girl would love to have a pair of cute
little panties all her own or a little necklace or a
little bracelet or a barrette or something, and a
boy would like to have a little, I don't know,
T-shirt or something like that that is his, and he
gets it with his name on it as a present from
somebody. Now, that's what I want to do. But I want
to be very careful, and I'm going to proceed very
slowly at this thing. I want to be very careful that
the people, a group of people in any church, don't
do it just one time. I want it to continue. I want
them to take an interest in this one cottage. And
there are anywhere from 8 to 10 to 12 kiddos in a
cottage. And I don't want every kiddo in there to
get something at the same time. You know, I don't
want this kiddo to get something. And most of them,
sometimes they'll have a six-year-old girl, a
16-year-old girl, and they mix them up in a kind. So
it's more like a family rather than have all
six-year-olds in one cottage. But that's what I
want to do in brief. And it's going to take me a
little bit of time to get the thing organized. and
to get it in operation. But that's what I want to do.
And I'd like to have these people go visit these
kids once in a while. Boy, you...
I don't know. Where I was, I don't know. This had
nothing to do with this, but it does in a way. For
years, in the past, I took stuff to orphanages, but
it was just a truckload of this stuff and a
truckload of that. Nothing personal, see? And I
can remember when I was in the orphanage, it was in
23 Toby Street, Providence, Rhode Island. I can
remember that. As I say, I can't remember what
happened last week, but I can remember very
vividly Many, many, many things that happened 60
years ago in that place. It was, we were, well, I'm
not going to go into gory details of it, but I
remember one time they had bars on the window of our
playroom. And I remember one time gripping those
bars and looking out there and I said, if I ever get
out of here, I'm going to burn this place down.
Well, I finally got taken out. I wasn't adopted,
but I was taken out for some unknown reason. And
about six months after I got out of there, the place
burned down. And I was about 25 miles from there, up
in Massachusetts, out in the country. And I ran
out. I ran away. I ran out in the woods, and I spent
all day out in those woods. And I came in late at
night, and a lady asked me where I'd been, and I told
her. I knew they were coming after me.
Oh, boy, I was scared. I knew they were going to get
me. But that's what I want to do. That's what I want
to spend a considerable part of my time doing.
Because I am not going to go home and sit and wither.
That's what you'll do if you go home and sit. Or if
you don't have something to occupy yourself. You
can get in and ride around here, walk here, visit
here, visit there. But I feel that if a person is
able... He better stay active as long as he can.
What you have outlined is certainly a worthwhile
endeavor, certainly a contribution to... I am not
doing this for my own sake. Let me tell you
something. I have a reputation, I guess, of being
very mean. At least my students think I'm mean. And
I presume I am, but I got a lot of that stuff... early
in life, and a lot of it hasn't brushed off and it
never will. This is something that needs to be
done, in my opinion. It needs to be done.
Therefore,
I want to do it. It's nothing to me. I want to stay out
of the picture. I don't want to be mentioned at all.
I just want to be the igniter. Well, I didn't even
imply that I thought you were doing it. No, no, I
know you didn't. No, I know you didn't. But that's
how deeply I feel about this thing. It has to be
done. And somebody, oh, I know a lot of these
churches do a lot of these things at Christmas.
Now, don't you think it'd be a good idea to send
somebody to the offense? Yeah, Christmas, they
get a ton of candy. What I'm concerned about is the
13th of July. I'm concerned about the 20th of
March. I'm concerned about the 10th of October.
Now, you don't have to send them a present every
day, but they ought to get something occasionally
to let them know that somebody out there knows that
they're in here. That's the thing, you see. That's
the thing that's important to me. Then on the other
end of the deal, they keep these kiddos until they
get through high school. Now on the other end of the
deal, I am going to make a valiant effort to see if I
can't find agency somewhere or money available
somewhere where some of these worthy kids can go to
college. Now, there's a lot of money hanging
around at various universities that nobody seems
to know anything about in the form of little
scholarships. And they're not all based on
academic excellence. They're based on need. And
if anyone needs assistance, some of these little
fellas getting out of these places have been in
there 10 years or more. They need it. And that's the
other end of the picture that I'm going to look
into. I've helped quite a few kids through school,
but that's nobody's business. But now that I've
got time,
that's what I want to do, and I think I'm going to
feel pretty good doing it. I mean, because it needs
to be done. That's what I mean. There's too many of
us, you know, we talk about helping our fellow man,
but what do we do? We sit in our can and... Now, I just
came back from a trip up the Lake of the Ozarks, and
me and my wife, we met one of our kiddos up there and
our grandkids, and we spent a few days up there. And
I looked around at all of the facilities at these
semi-rich people. Now, they weren't rich, but
there they were playing. which is all right. I
maintain that a person never should forget how to
play. You should never grow up all the way. I tell my
students that all the time. They sit there and
snicker. Now, this afternoon, I play out in my
backyard every time I get a chance. I'm this
afternoon. I can't wait to get out there and mow and
do a little digging. I got a little garden out there
and no grow much, but I have a lot of fun. Get out
there and sweat and play. That's what I call it. Sit
and talk to the birds and the cats and the dogs and
Bunny Squirrel, that little son of a gun, he's in
there every day. Every time I turn around, there he
is. Out there having a lot of fun. I talk to him. And I
ask my students, I said, you ever talk to yourself?
And they look at me like I'm half nuts. And finally,
they'll admit that most of them do talk to
themselves. And they said, do you? I said, yeah, I
don't know anybody smarter than I am. I get a lot of
fun talking to me. I got all the answers. I got all
the questions. And I just sit there and puff my
pipe. And I have a lot of fun talking to myself,
because I give myself the right answers. But
that's what I intend to do. I've had a couple of jobs
offered to me. I had one. I won't mention who it is.
It probably won't open up until another six or
eight months. But it's a public relations thing.
You know, a little thing. You can't afford to take a
job that pays you any money. Well, the government
will take it right away from you, you know what I
mean? Well, I'm all set up now to draw my pension and
my Social Security, and I think I've earned them
both. I've put in many thousands of dollars in both
of them. And I'm not too anxious to... I'm anxious
to go to work for these fellas so I can meet people
and have a lot of fun, but I don't want any, you know,
no great money for it because... The more you get,
the more they take away from you. Well, and as far as
meeting people, I would say that the more people
you can meet, the more contacts you have for your
other project of working, in a sense, for the
orphanages, or for the benefit of them, for the
kids in the orphanages. You see, I don't want
money. I don't want money. I don't want people to
give me any money. I wouldn't know what to do. Well,
I'd know what to do with it, but... I want to make it a
personal thing. Well, you're wanting things for
the kitchen. Little things. They don't have to be
big things. Little things a kid will get and he'll
open it. He said, gee, my name is on this. This is for
me. And he opens it up there and there it is. Gosh,
this is mine. It's not a truckload of stuff from a
hardware store or department store that they buy
and just, here's yours, James. Here's yours,
Jack, and so forth. It's just a personal thing. You
don't know how much that would mean to a kid to get
some little, small thing, a couple of bucks or
something like that. Every once in a while, it's
his own.
I can remember. We never got any in my place.
Everything belonged to the orphanage, and you
used it. Well, it didn't belong to anybody. As I
say, all our clothes were secondhand when we got
them. secondhand toothbrush, everything. Never
got enough to eat. Now, I'm not complaining. Now,
don't misunderstand me. I'm just stating facts.
And in the wintertime, because it was winter up
there, they had a big room there that had cloaks,
they called a cloak room, sweaters and coats and so
forth. You had one pair of pants, and that's what
they wore, them knee things and long black
stockings and a shirt and underwear, long
underwear. And when it was cold, we went down in a
cloak room. And we'd fight.
Nobody had anything that belonged to him. There
was always a fight. I walked out of there one
morning with six sweaters. I learned to fight in
that office. I was only a little squirt. I was
only six, seven years old. And they used to take us
to Sunday school. Line us up, two by two. March down
to Sunday School. I remember that very
vigorously. And the old lady there, she'd walk
along with a thing. It looked like an umbrella, but
it was a club.
And they'd get down there, and they'd tell us about
the sweet little Jesus.
I said, that's fine. But I never heard any of that
the rest of the week. They just wailed us and we
worked. Now, I'm not making this up, buddy. I'm
sure you're not. Now, there's no comparison
between the place I was in and the place these
kiddos are in now. But I've been to quite a few of
these homes and they're beautiful. Some of them
are absolutely, almost luxurious, you know. But
they worked us. Inspect, inspect. We went to the
public school. And you think we didn't have our
problems there? I'm sure you did. You think we
didn't have our fights there? We haven't. Even
though Providence is a fairly sizable city and...
It has its slum areas. Well, what I'm about to say is
that there was no way to keep it a secret as to where
you were coming from. Oh, no. They could tell by
looking at you, you stinking little ragamuffin. I
mean, we were fighting with our classmates.
That's what I mean. The kids was in the room. And a
kid will come up to see you and on the playground he
says, I'll get you. That means he's going to get you
on the way home. And he'll lay for you. That was the
term. I'm going to lay for you.
And he's but one way home. And you had a fight on the
way home. Then you get home and they're wondering
why you got a bloody nose or something. Then you
have to lie about that. But if you told them the
truth, they'd give you another walloping for
fight. For fight, yeah. I mean, you couldn't win,
too. You know, you couldn't win. It was right next
to a railroad where they had a lot of, you know,
railroad, what do you call it, where all the trains
were. Footyard? Yeah. And this is a big freight
area. I've seen kids run away from that. And I saw
them when they brought them back. And they stuck
them in solitary for a while. And I was tempted to
run away. But I was smarter than that. I knew I
didn't have any place to go. I mean, the cops are
going to pick you up very shortly. And they know
where you're from. They caught you right there. So
I didn't try to run away. I was smart enough to know I
didn't have any place to go. When you came back.
Yeah, you bet your life was worth it. And they had,
they also had, they had boys and girls there too,
but I didn't know at that age, I didn't know a boy
from a girl. But I do remember we lined up here and
they lined up over there. And I looked straight
ahead. I mean, I didn't even know what a girl was.
But I do remember I was a big boy. And each big boy had
a little boy to give him a bath on Saturday. And I had
a little guy named Eddie Egan. And he didn't want to
take a bath, and I'd chase him all over that plain,
have to rip his clothes off. And they had these zinc
bathtubs. I don't know whether you ever saw one of
them. Zinc inside and wood on the outside. You get a
little corner ripped up on that, and you skate
along that, it'll tear you up pretty good. Well,
I'd get him in there, and there'd be about eight or
ten kids take a bath in the same bath water. I'd
finally get him in there, and I'd rub soap all over
his eyes. And after you get him in there, he gets
slippery. And I tried to drown him three or four
times, but I never could drown him. I'm not kidding
you. I'm saying, oh, he made, man, I'm telling you,
I'd beat that kid half to death. I wonder whatever
became of him. He was about, well, he was about two
years old, three years old, I mean. That little son
of a gun, I'm telling you, we had him around and
around every Saturday. I can imagine. I had a
couple boys at two with him. Well, actually, I
guess they were more interested in taking him back
as a place to play, but they had not had six other
people in the water before. We didn't have any play
with him. The funny thing was, I was six, seven
years old, and I was a big boy. I was a big boy. And I
had that little son of a gun. And that was one of my
jobs, give him a bath every Saturday. And he'd
fight and kick and holler. I mean, that place was a
bedlam. It was a bedlam. Because each big boy had a
little boy to give him a bath. And sometimes we'd
get two in a tub and exchange them and knock their
heads together and do all kinds of... Oh, we were
mean. I mean, you know, I mean... Well, in a sense,
you were passing down the treatment that was
handed out to you, I guess. Yes, I guess so.
Well, anyway, that has nothing to do with what I'm
going to do in the future. And I'm sure these kiddos
don't go through the same stuff we went through.
But I do know that they would love dearly to get some
little... some little remembrance every once in a
while from somebody to let them know that somebody
thinks of me once in a while. That's all I want to do
on a very small scale.
I'm sure that the way everything you say is true,
and they certainly will appreciate it. More than
likely, they won't know who was the instigator.
No, I don't want them to know that. That's none of
their business. I just want them to know that John
got a present from Mrs. Brown. I just want to steer
up Mrs. Brown a little. Oh, I'm going to visit these
places. I know that the two of the
superintendents, I've met them before, years
back. But this one down in San Antonio, that's the
one that intrigues me. Because they need it more
than anywhere else, any other often in the state
that I know anything about. But as I go along, the
good Lord willing, I'll find out more about this
stuff. Do what I can. I'm sure you will have plenty
to do. Well, I'm going to give it a try.